---
title: What is an NFT
module: 15
jotted: true
---

# WHAT IS AN NFT?

<div class="tab">
  <button class="tablinks active" onclick="openTab(event, 'Overview')">Overview</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'how')">How do they work</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'video')">Video</button>
  
  
</div>

<div id="Overview" class="tabcontent" style="display:block">
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">

`Non-fungible token`

That doesn’t make it any clearer.

Right, sorry. "Non-fungible" more or less means that it’s **unique** and can't be replaced with something else. For example, a bitcoin is fungible — trade one for another bitcoin, and you’ll have exactly the same thing. A one-of-a-kind trading card, however, is non-fungible. If you traded it for a different card, you'd have something completely different. You gave up a Squirtle, and got a 1909 T206 Honus Wagner, which StadiumTalk calls "the Mona Lisa of baseball cards."

</div>
</div>
<div id="how" class="tabcontent">
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">

**How do NFTs work?**

At a very high level, most NFTs are part of the **Ethereum** blockchain. Ethereum is a cryptocurrency, like bitcoin or dogecoin, but its blockchain also supports these NFTs, which store extra information that makes them work differently from, say, an `ETH` coin. It is worth noting that other blockchains can implement their own versions of NFTs. (Some already have.)

**What’s worth picking up at the NFT supermarket?**

NFTs can really be anything digital (such as drawings, music, your brain downloaded and turned into an AI), but a lot of the current excitement is around using the tech to sell digital art.

**Marketplace Example**

Here is one of the largest marketplaces currently.  <a href="https://opensea.io/" target="_new">OpenSea</a>

<a href="https://www.theverge.com/22310188/nft-explainer-what-is-blockchain-crypto-art-faq" target="_new"><em>Reference</em></a>

</div>
</div>

<div id="video" class="tabcontent">
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">

**Video**

Here is an overview video of NFTs

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Xdkkux6OxfM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

</div>
</div>
