---
title: 3D Basics
module: 9
jotted: false
---

# 3D Basics

<div class="tab">
  <button class="tablinks active" onclick="openTab(event, 'Overview')">Overview</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'coordinate')">Coordinates</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'translate')">translate</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'camera')">camera</button> 
</div>

<div id="Overview" class="tabcontent" style="display:block"  >
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">

## Introducing WebGL in p5.js

In p5.js, there are two render modes: P2D (default renderer) and WEBGL. Both render modes utilize the html canvas element, however by enabling the WEBGL "context" on the canvas, we can now draw in both 2D and 3D. To enable WEBGL, simply specify as the third parameter in the createCanvas() function.

```js
function setup() {
  createCanvas(200, 200, WEBGL);
}
```

</div>
</div>
<div id="coordinate" class="tabcontent">
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">

### 3D coordinate system

If you've been coding in p5.js for a while you probably know the Cartesian coordinate 0,0 (x,y) is located in the top left corner of our drawing canvas. In WEBGL mode we introduce a third dimension: Z. So how do we handle the z-coordinate? I'm glad you asked! The z-dimension is the axis that points toward you from the screen. A helpful mnemonic device for remembering which way the axes point in p5.js (WEBGL), is the "left-handed" rule. Point your left index finger to the right, and your middle finger downward, and your thumb will automatically point toward you. The direction your fingers are pointing are exactly mapped to the axes. The 0,0,0 (x,y,z) point is located in the middle of the canvas.

Let’s look at a quick example:

```js
function setup() {
  createCanvas(windowWidth, windowHeight, WEBGL);
}

function draw(){
  background(255);
  box();
}
```

This should draw a box in the center of your canvas.
</div>
</div>
<div id="translate" class="tabcontent">
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">

### Translate, Rotate

We feel that centering objects by default makes more sense as a starting point for thinking about 3D space, and is especially fast if you want to draw a couple of geometric primitives, but if you prefer to move the origin back to the top left corner similar to 2D mode, simply apply a negative width and height translation:

```js

function draw(){
  background(255);
  translate(-width/2,-height/2,0); //moves our drawing origin to the top left corner
  box();
}

```

Calling translate(x,y,z), applies a transformation to the Model Matrix. This is a technical way of saying, we are moving the origin coordinate for our drawing. If we write the following code:

```js
box();
translate(100,100,-100);
box();
```

This code draws a box, then translates our model matrix 100 units to the right, 100 units down, and 100 units away from the viewer, and finally draws another box at the new translated origin. There are two important things to note here. First, translate() always applies to draw functions called afterward. Second, you may have noticed we use the generic term, “units,” instead of “pixels”. The reason for this is because the actual distance of translation largely depends on our virtual camera view. Model Matrix + View Matrix (i.e. camera) creates the perceived translation distance. In the next section we’ll discuss the virtual camera in greater detail but before we do that, let’s talk about rotation. Another type of model matrix transformation in 3D is rotate(). There are 4 different rotation functions in WEBGL mode:

```js
rotate(angle, [x,y,z]);
rotateX(angle);
rotateY(angle);
rotateZ(angle);
```

A helpful way to remember which function to use for rotation is, “rotate around the ____ axis” Therefore, If we want to do a barrel roll around the X axis, we’d write:

```js
rotateX(radians(45));
```

All rotation functions take a numerical parameter in radians.

</div>
</div>
<div id="camera" class="tabcontent">
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">

### Camera and view

In WEBGL mode, there are currently 3 camera functions.

```js
camera(x,y,z)
perspective(fovy, aspect, near, far)
ortho(left, right, bottom, top, near, far)
```

The default camera view in WEBGL mode is perspective with a 60 degree field of view. This is created when you initialize WEBGL mode in createCanvas(). To override the default camera options, simply call perspective() or ortho(). In a perspective view, objects closer to the viewer in the z-plane appear larger than those farther away. In orthographic view (ortho()), objects of the same dimensions appear to be the same size even if they are farther away on the z-plane. For example:

```js
function setup(){
  createCanvas(500,500,WEBGL);
  ortho(-width, width, height, -height/2, 0.1, 100);
}
function draw(){
  box(30);
  translate(100,100,-100);
  rotate(PI/4, [1,1,0]);
  box(30);
}
```

For more information on the camera in 3D, check out the excellent P3D tutorial here: https://processing.org/tutorials/p3d/

At the time of this writing, only one camera is supported per canvas. However, this may change in the future.

Now, let's examine the 3D Simple shapes in p5.js
</div>
</div>

<a href="https://github.com/processing/p5.js/wiki/Getting-started-with-WebGL-in-p5#introducing-webgl-in-p5js" target="_new"><em>Reference</em></a>

#### Coding Train Video
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6TPVoB4uQCU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<a href="https://www.learner.org/wp-content/interactive/geometry/about.html" target="_new">Want to learn about 3D Shapes?</a>