---
title: Help
permalink: /:title/
---

# Getting Help

## Help Quick Links

- [Course Issues Forum](https://github.com/Montana-Media-Arts/220_CreativeCoding2-Spring2021-Samples/issues)
- [Course Discord](https://discord.gg/GNEaKPv9Rv)
- [Email Michael Cassens](mailto:michael.cassnes@umontana.edu?subject=441%20Question)

## Help Procedures

Do the following to get help with problems.

1. Google the problem.
2. Post a message to the [Course Discord](https://discord.gg/GNEaKPv9Rv)
    - Discord is like a massive chat where everyone can talk to one another in real time and help each other out with issues or just chat.
3. Post to the [course issues forum](https://github.com/Montana-Media-Arts/220_CreativeCoding2-Spring2021-Samples/issues).
    - The advantage to the GitHub issues forum is its advanced system for including formatted code. This will help with problem solving.
4. Get help from [Michael Cassens]({{site.baseurl}}/instructors/)
    - If you have a high level problem, or need help that no one can offer, please contact Michael Cassens (me, the one writing all of this).
    - The best way to get a hold of me is to swing by my weekly office hours. These are posted (and updated) under my [office hours section]({{site.baseurl}}/instructors/#office-hours). This is another way to work with me via Zoom. 
    - Please email, Zoom, Skype, or text me. (I will get back to you as soon as I can.  If you don't get a message back from me, please feel free to try again (unless it's the middle of the night -- even then I sometimes respond.  I do try and sleep sometimes))
        - [michael.cassens@umontana.edu](mailto:michael.cassens@umontana.edu?subject=220%20Question)
5. Get help from [Michael Cassens]({{site.baseurl}}/instructors/)
    - If you have problems or need help that no one can offer, please contact Michael Cassens (me, the one writing all of this).
    - The best way to get a hold of me is to swing by my weekly office hours or set up a Zoom conference call. These are posted (and updated) under my [office hours section]({{site.baseurl}}/instructors/#office-hours). 
    - If you are a distance student or cannot make one of those times, please email me. (I will get back to you as soon as I can.  If you don't get a message back from me, please feel free to try again (unless it's the middle of the night -- even then I sometimes respond.  I do try and sleep sometimes))
        - [michael.cassens@umontana.edu](mailto:michael.cassens@umontana.edu?subject=220%20Question)
    - set up a Zoom conference call - [Zoom conference call](https://calendly.com/michael-cassens/220-meeting)

<!--
## Lab Hours

The "127 Media Arts Computer Lab" (McGill, 127) is open to all of you via your Griz Card at any time.
-->

