---
title: Images
module: 3
jotted: true
---

# Images

There are two things that need to happen to make sure the image appears correctly.  It requires both the **preload** and **setup** function.

Below is an example.

```js

var img;
function preload() {
  img = loadImage('assets/picture.jpg');
}
function setup() {
  image(img, 0, 0);
}

```

So, what is happening here is the loadImage function retrieves the image from the assets folder.

Then, in the setup function, the image is displayed when the **img** object (we will cover this in more detail next week), is sent into the **image** function in the setup.

Here is the official description from <a href="p5js.org/reference" target="_new">p5.js reference</a>.

Loads an image from a path and creates a p5.Image from it.

The image may not be immediately available for rendering If you want to ensure that the image is ready before doing anything with it, place the loadImage() call in preload(). You may also supply a callback function to handle the image when it's ready.

The path to the image should be relative to the HTML file that links in your sketch. Loading an image from a URL or other remote location may be blocked due to your browser's built-in security.

How was the image accessed?  Did we use an absolute reference or a relative reference?

Are you wondering to yourself, what's the difference?

**Definition**

`Absolute reference` - provides the complete http address in the form of a full URL, including the server name and complete path.

`Relative reference` - provides a partial http address in the form of a fragment of a partial or full directory pathname and file name. 

**Example**

`Absolute reference` - http://www.domain.com/images/picture.jpg 

OR

C:\documents\images\picture.jpg


`Relative reference` - images/picture.jpg

OR

./images/picture.jpg

Which one did we use? Yes, relative reference!  That's because we do have the entire URL or the entire directory path.

<em><a href="https://www.andrew.cmu.edu/server/references.html" target="_new">Reference</a></em>