---
title: Course Introduction
module: 1
---

## Welcome to Creative Coding 2 (MART 220)

<div class="tab">
  <button class="tablinks active" onclick="openTab(event, 'Overview')">Overview</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Objectives')">Objectives</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Expect')">What to Expect</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Goals')">Goals</button>
 <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Week')">Rest of the Week</button>

</div>

<div id="Overview" class="tabcontent" style="display:block"  markdown="1">
## Overview of the Course

This class is designed to build upon what was learned in Creative Coding 1 and give additional perspectives on writing code along with interactive pieces.  This course focuses on reinforcing programmatic concepts in p5.js, Arduino and 3D Printing, Game Development and Augment Reality.  There will be hands-on opportunities so that one becomes proficient in using these tools.  The course culminates in a semester long project in which students present their work to each other and invite feedback from the class.

*	General Computing Concepts
*	Integrate and synthesize logical reasoning and critical thinking
*	Work with multiple programming paradigms
*	Work with the Internet of Things
*	Interface between hardware and software
*	Determine which programmatic tools best fit the problems at hand
*	Work collaboratively during and outside of class to create art and solicit feedback from peers




<!-- The final topic will touch on the power of JS and node.js for server-side development. A number of JavaScript libraries will be explored for how they can speed up the artistic process. -->
</div>

<div id="Objectives" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">
## Objectives

Upon completing this course, a student will be able to: 


*	Understand programming concepts and build visually interactive programs using p5.js, play libraries
*	Interact with online Arduino boards
*	Interact and build 3D models and art pieces
*	Use existing game engines to build a simple game
*	Work with Augment Reality tools
*	Effectively express their art through personal presentation and an artist statement
*	Take feedback and incorporate that into their projects
*	Critically think about what tools are required for the task at hand
*	Collaborate with others to solve real-world problems




<!-- - Have a basic understanding of the role node.js plays in web development. -->
<!-- - Be capable of creating a basic web-socket based web-app for multi-user interaction. -->

</div>

<div id="Expect" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">
## What to Expect

This course will force you to learn and adapt to new technologies, while also thinking about design, and content creation. Some weeks will lean more technical in nature, while others will lean more creative-based.

Just as the content focus will shift, so to will the work amount. Some weeks, especially those when new topics are being introduced, have a heavier workload. The goal of this is to make you practice with these new technologies and techniques. Other weeks will slow down and allow you to practice at a more exploratory pace.

You should plan;

- 3 hours a week to work through the course website content (what you are doing now).
- 3-9 hours a week to work on concepts, code assignments, studying, and practicing.

</div>

<div id="Goals" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">
## Class Goals

There are 4 high-level goals for this course;

1. Learn how to problem solve. (More specifically, how to break a problem down into sub-problems that are easier to solve by themselves)
2. Adapt to constantly changing technological paradigms by learning how to learn. (Skills acquisition.)
3. Combine technical and artistic practices through inquiry and iteration.
4. Adopt and use professional practices.
</div>

<div id="Week" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">
# Overview the Rest of This Week

The rest of this week will introduce the following;

- Information about instructors
- Syllabus
- Review:
    - GitHub accounts
    - issues forum
    - Creating a new GitHub Repo
    - using p5.js to create some simple shapes
- Go over how to submit homework.
</div>